OSDOCS 17887: [ROSA] CQA for OSD Cluster Admin (#112511)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/osd-deploying-machinepool-single-az-gcp.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * osd_cluster_admin/osd_nodes/osd-nodes-machinepools-about.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="osd-deploying-machinepool-single-az-gcp_{context}"]
= Deploy a machine pool in a single availability zone within a Multi-AZ cluster

[role="_abstract"]

> Deploy a single machine pool to a specific availability zone that is part of a Multi-AZ cluster. This option is useful when a desired instance type is not available in all availability zones of a region or when your cluster does not need multiple instances of the desired instance type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy a single machine pool to a specific availability zone (AZ) that is part of a Multi-AZ cluster. This option is useful when a ?required? instance type is not available in all AZs of a region or when your cluster doesn't need multiple instances of the instance type that you want.
```

IIRC, RH docs switch to using contractions.

AZ: Our docs don't use AZ consistently, so it's up to you whether to keep it. Since multi-AZ is already in the doc, we could use AZ everywhere, including a title ("single AZ") but really up to you.

desired: I know we aren't necessarily fixing the Quality tab concerns, but desired is on the red-alarm no-no list, we could probably try to remove it.

.Prerequisites

* The link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads[{cluster-manager} API command-line interface (`ocm`)] is installed.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
[subs="attributes+"]
{cluster-manager} API command-line interface (`ocm`) is a Developer Preview feature only.
For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Developer Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/devpreview/[Developer Preview Support Scope].
====

.Procedure

> . Deploy a machine pool to a specific availability zone by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy a machine pool to a specific AZ by running the following command:
```
One-step procedure.
AZ - up to you :)

+

> [source,bash,subs="+quotes"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```
OCP docs don't italicize user-replaced values, see [Command syntax for replaceable values](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#command-syntax-for-replaceable-values).

You could either remove all underscores around user-replaced values or remove `subs="+quotes"` from the code block header. Without `subs="+quotes"` formatting inside a code block won't be processed.

----
ocm create machine-pool \
  --cluster __<cluster_name>__ \
  --instance-type __<instance_type>__ \
  --replicas __<number_of_replicas>__ \
  --availability-zone __<availability_zone>__ \
  [__<flags>__] \
  __<machine_pool_id>__
----
+
Where:
+
* `__<cluster_name>__`: Replace with the name or ID of the cluster that you want to add the machine pool to.
* `__<instance_type>__`: Replace with the instance type you want to deploy to the single availability zone.
* `__<number_of_replicas>__`: Replace with the number of replicas of the selected instance type you want to include in the machine pool.
* `__<availability_zone>__`: Replace with the availability zone you want to add the machine pool to.
* `__<flags>__`: Optional. Replace with any additional flags available for machine pool creation.

> * `__<machine_pool_id>__`: Replace with an ID for your machine pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where:
+
* `<cluster_name>`: Replace with the name or ID of the cluster that you want to add the machine pool to.
* `<instance_type>`: Replace with the instance type you want to deploy to the single availability zone.
* `<number_of_replicas>`: Replace with the number of replicas of the selected instance type you want to include in the machine pool.
* `<availability_zone>`: Replace with the availability zone you want to add the machine pool to.
* `<flags>`: Optional. Replace with any additional flags available for machine pool creation.
* `<machine_pool_id>`: Replace with an ID for your machine pool.
```
Same as above, user-replaced values aren't italicized in the OCP docs.

+
[NOTE]
====
To view the additional flags available for machine pool creation, run the `ocm create machine-pool --help` command.
====

.Verification

* Verify the machine pool was created by running:
+
[source,bash,subs="+quotes"]
----
ocm list machinepools --cluster __<cluster_name>__
----

* The output shows the new machine pool with the specified availability zone.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/machine_management/index.html[Overview of machine management]
* link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types[{gcp-full} instance types]

> * link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones[{gcp-full} regions and availability zones]

Reviewer: These add.resources meet with the assembly-wide add.resources (assembly name is **osd_cluster_admin/osd_nodes/osd-nodes-machinepools-about.adoc**), and for some reason they're almost identical :) Let's remove duplicates from here or from there.

<img width="410" height="392" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af9bfac1-0282-4c2d-9697-f389e5e3c7b8" />
